# SSO Migration from env variable to UI

!!! tip "Enterprise edition"

     SSO configuration is under the [OpenCTI Enterprise Edition](../../administration/enterprise.md) license. Please read the information in this page for more information.

## Migration process
After upgrade, at platform initialization, the configuration file will be read and migrated: all authentications defined in the configuration file will be stored in at database level. 
They will still exist in the configuration file.

Authentications existing in database will be loaded, initialized and users will be able to use them to authenticate. 

## Authentications that will be migrated
Existing LDAP, SAML, OpenID, Certificate & Headers configurations will be migrated to be managed via UI.

Auth0 authentication will not be migrated, so as Github, Facebook & Google. 
These being created using OpenID framework, you will have to manually create these via UI. 

This means that it will not possible to use these authentication to login after migration. 

## Prevent any platform from being locked
To avoid any platform from being locked, the migration will ensure that the Local Authentication strategy is enabled if no other enabled strategy exist prior the migration: this way, any platform that is under community edition & disabled the Local Strategy will have a way to login after the migration.

## Troubleshoot any issue post migration
To troubleshoot any issue that might occur during the migration, please refer to this [page](../../administration/authentication-via-ui.md#failed-migration).

## Migrating as a Community Edition 
Given authentication via SSO is now an Entreprise Edition feature, a couple of solution exist to help you transition: 
- login via local authentication: as explained in the above [paragraph](7.0-SSO-authentication-migration.md#prevent-any-platform-from-being-locked), local authentication will be forced if no other way to login is detected.
- request a trial license: you can request a trial license allowing you to use the power of Entreprise Edition in your platform directly through your Hub instance. More information in this [page](https://hub.filigran.io/cybersecurity-solutions/opencti-free-trial).

## Avoiding having an authentication strategy that keeps appearing in the UI
Assuming you have a configration defined in your configuration file, when upgrading to version 7, your configuration will be converted to UI (stored in database). 

If for whatever reason you delete this configuration from UI, next time you will initialize your platform, you will see **the same configuration again.**

This is due to the migration process. Once you have confirmed that the migration worked (all your users still able to login as usual, you can safely remove your configuration.)
